docs: add article about how global payouts can empower nonprofits and community initiatives (#425)
Chimoney/chimoney-community-projects: submissions/Articles/global-payouts-non-profits.md

﻿
# How Global Payouts Can Empower Communities and Non-profits

You’re hosting a charity baking event, raising funds to help an underserved community overseas gain access to 24/7 electricity and clean water. After reaching your monetary goal, you send the money using a platform like PayPal, feeling accomplished. But a few days later, when you check for updates, there's no clear sign that the funds have reached the community. The excitement of making a difference turns into frustration and uncertainty—did the money get there? Or is it stuck in transit, caught up in fees and delays? A possible solution to this issue is global payouts. They are the transfer of funds between two parties in different countries and/or involving two different currencies. Still uncertain about this method? No worries, this article will explore how global payouts empower your non-profits and community initiatives.

## How Global Payouts Offer Transparency and Save You Money

> A common issue that non-profits encounter when using traditional banking to fund money overseas is that most of these platforms require them to pay fees to access to some or all of their services and to make transactions.  For example, [nonprofits spend around $3 billion a year on transaction fees](https://www.zeffy.com/blog/nonprofits-paid-2-billion-in-transaction-fees-last-year). In other words, traditional banking platforms are too expensive.  Global payout platforms can solve this issue by giving nonprofits the freedom the payment-sending rates that fall within your budget and are upfront about their fees.  Chimoney was started by [Uchi Uchibeke after struggling to send winners the prize money for an event they were hosting due to the traditional banking platform fees being expensive](https://chimoney.io/blogs/techstars-backs-chimoney-to-revolutionize-global-payouts/). From there, the winners were paid. Now no hidden fees aren’t the only way global payouts can empower your community initiative or nonprofit. Let’s check out another one.

Reviewer: This sentence is a bit unclear `Global payout platforms can solve this issue by giving nonprofits the freedom the payment-sending rates that fall within your budget and are upfront about their fees.` 

A small rewording might help

> A common issue that non-profits encounter when using traditional banking to fund money overseas is that most of these platforms require them to pay fees to access to some or all of their services and to make transactions.  For example, [nonprofits spend around $3 billion a year on transaction fees](https://www.zeffy.com/blog/nonprofits-paid-2-billion-in-transaction-fees-last-year). In other words, traditional banking platforms are too expensive.  Global payout platforms can solve this issue by giving nonprofits the freedom the payment-sending rates that fall within your budget and are upfront about their fees.  Chimoney was started by [Uchi Uchibeke after struggling to send winners the prize money for an event they were hosting due to the traditional banking platform fees being expensive](https://chimoney.io/blogs/techstars-backs-chimoney-to-revolutionize-global-payouts/). From there, the winners were paid. Now no hidden fees aren’t the only way global payouts can empower your community initiative or nonprofit. Let’s check out another one.

Reviewer: Please update this part `an event they were hosting` to `AfriHacks, a hackathon they were hosting`

## How Global Payouts Can Give You Multiple Ways To Send Money

Global payouts provide the necessary infrastructure for non-profits to send financial support quickly and efficiently. In contrast to traditional banking platforms, global payout platforms users have the freedom to use any method to send their money to other people. This can be helpful to nonprofits as it enables them to decide which delivery method best suits their organization and the people they serve. Case in point, [the International Student Identity Card (ISIC)'s partnership with Chimoney makes it easier for students manage their fiances](https://chimoney.io/blogs/chimoney-partners-with-isic-to-expand-global-benefits-for-chimoney-app-users/) as [they can send and receive money via email, their application, and text messaging](https://chimoney.io/payouts/).

> 

Reviewer: In this part could you add a section titled 'How Chimoney Empowers Communities and Non-profits'

In that section, please talk about the[ TryOpenGiving.com](https://tryopengiving.com/) platform which helps non-profits and communities around the world receive donations and get paid easily in various methods applicable to the donor through Chimoney. [Here's the repo of the platform for more info](https://github.com/Chimoney/non-profit-donations/tree/main/open-giving).

Kindly let me know if you need any help on this. Thanks

# How Global Payouts Can Empower Communities and Non-profits

> You’re hosting a charity baking event, raising funds to help an underserved community overseas gain access to 24/7 electricity and clean water. After reaching your monetary goal, you send the money using a platform like PayPal, feeling accomplished. But a few days later, when you check for updates, there's no clear sign that the funds have reached the community. The excitement of making a difference turns into frustration and uncertainty. A possible solution to this issue is global payouts. They are the transfer of funds between two parties in different countries and/or involving two different currencies. Still uncertain about this method? No worries, this article will explore how global payouts empower your non-profits and community initiatives.

Reviewer: Please focus this and probably the rest of the article on the fact that you can use different global payouts methods i.e traditional banks, fintech platforms, payment processors but there are several issues involved (which currently you have outlined and explained well!) as you are mentioning the issues you now mention how Chimoney stands out as a solution to that problem. For example:

For this `You’re hosting a charity baking event, raising funds to help an underserved community overseas gain access to 24/7 electricity and clean water. After reaching your monetary goal, you send the money using a platform like PayPal, feeling accomplished. But a few days later, when you check for updates, there's no clear sign that the funds have reached the community. The excitement of making a difference turns into frustration and uncertainty. A possible solution to this issue is global payouts. They are the transfer of funds between two parties in different countries and/or involving two different currencies. Still uncertain about this method? No worries, this article will explore how global payouts empower your non-profits and community initiatives.`

it can now be

> You’re hosting a charity baking event, raising funds to help an underserved community overseas gain access to 24/7 electricity and clean water. After reaching your monetary goal, you send the money using a platform like PayPal, feeling accomplished. But a few days later, when you check for updates, there's no clear sign that the funds have reached the community. The excitement of making a difference turns into frustration and uncertainty. A possible solution to this issue is Chimoney. Chimoney allows you to perform global payouts to 130+ countries using the recipient's email and in this case the community you're sending to will be able to redeem the payment to their own registered bank account, or mobile money near instantly depending on their location.This article will explore how global payouts can empower non-profits and community initiatives, using Chimoney as a solution to streamline international transfers.

> You’re hosting a charity baking event, raising funds to help an underserved community overseas gain access to 24/7 electricity and clean water. After reaching your monetary goal, you send the money using a platform like PayPal, feeling accomplished. But a few days later, when you check for updates, there's no clear sign that the funds have reached the community. The excitement of making a difference turns into frustration and uncertainty. A possible solution to this issue is global payouts. They are the transfer of funds between two parties in different countries and/or involving two different currencies. Still uncertain about this method? No worries, this article will explore how global payouts empower your non-profits and community initiatives.

Author: ```suggestion

You’re hosting a charity baking event, raising funds to help an underserved community overseas gain access to 24/7 electricity and clean water. After reaching your monetary goal, you send the money using a platform like PayPal, feeling accomplished. But a few days later, when you check for updates, there's no clear sign that the funds have reached the community. The excitement of making a difference turns into frustration and uncertainty. A possible solution to this issue is using Chimoney. Chimoney allows global payouts to 130+ countries via the recipient's email and in this case the community you're sending to will be able to redeem the recieved payment to their own registered bank account, or mobile money near instantly depending on their location. This article will explore how global payouts can empower non-profits and community initiatives, using Chimoney as a solution to streamline international transfers.

```

When it comes to funding money overseas, a common issue that nonprofits and community initiatives face is that are restricted to only sending money to certain countries. For example, [Paypal only supports 25 curriences and 200 countries](https://www.paypal.com/sm/webapps/mpp/country-worldwide). This type of restriction can make it difficult for nonprofits, especially those whose mission is to aid people in need, to provide financial funding. Unlike traditional banks, global payout platforms like [Chimoney allows users make transactions anywhere in the worldwide](https://chimoney.io/payouts/). This can put nonprofits as ease as they would be able to send money overseas and in turn help, their intended audience.   Case in point, [Dream Design community's use of Chimoney's payout feature has made it easier for them to send stipends to aspiring tech leaders worldwide](https://chimoney.io/blogs/chimoney-dreamax-partnership-empowering-tech-enthusiasts/). Now no geographical barriers aren’t the only way global payouts can empower your community initiative or nonprofit. Let’s check out another one.

## How Global Payouts Can Make Your Transactions Quick

> As cliche as it is to say, “Time is money”, it truly is important for users to get their money on time. Sadly, traditional banking institutions tend to have long delivery processes. For example, [Wise users receives their payment depending on the country and currency](https://wise.com/help/articles/2978029/how-long-does-it-take-to-receive-money-into-a-balance). This can put nonprofits at a disadvantage as it can cause the communities they serve to financially help them in a timely manner.  Unlike their traditional counterparts, global payout systems don’t have a waiting period. Once person sends money, the other person gets its instantly. Nonprofits can benefit greatly from this as they don’t have to worry about the communities they serve not getting the funding they sent.  For instance, [AfricaHacks' collaboration with Chimoney for their hackathon rewards to the winners due to having a feature where they can send people money in just one click](https://chimoney.io/blogs/5-types-of-people-who-should-use-chimoneys-bulk-gift-cards-feature/).  Now before you go, there’s just one more benefit of using global payout systems for nonprofit funding.

Reviewer: - Global Payouts are offered by traditional banks, payment processors, fintech platforms so this part `global payout systems don’t have a waiting period` may be a bit confusing because global payout systems also include traditional banks. And a waiting period is most times always there but it depends with the payment provider one uses and where the user is paying out to, so depending on the provider the waiting time is shorter (that's Chimoney's selling point, the waiting times are always shorter compared to other providers and often times payment is instant) 

- AfriHacks is the hackathon from which the idea of Chimoney was built, after Chimoney was founded, consecutive AfriHacks hackathons were powered by Chimoney so for this sentence `For instance, [AfricaHacks' collaboration with Chimoney for their hackathon rewards to the winners due to having a feature where they can send people money in just one click](https://chimoney.io/blogs/5-types-of-people-who-should-use-chimoneys-bulk-gift-cards-feature/).` the accurate version may be

> [AfricaHacks uses Chimoney's bulk payout feature to reward their hackathon winners.With a single click, all winners receive their payments instantly and can redeem them through multiple options, including bank transfers, mobile money, airtime, and gift cards](https://chimoney.io/blogs/5-types-of-people-who-should-use-chimoneys-bulk-gift-cards-feature/).

## How Global Payouts Can Give You Multiple Ways To Send Money

Global payouts provide the necessary infrastructure for non-profits to send financial support quickly and efficiently. In contrast to traditional banking platforms, global payout platforms users have the freedom to use any method to send their money to other people. This can be helpful to nonprofits as it enables them to decide which delivery method best suits their organization and the people they serve. Case in point, [the International Student Identity Card (ISIC)'s partnership with Chimoney makes it easier for students manage their fiances](https://chimoney.io/blogs/chimoney-partners-with-isic-to-expand-global-benefits-for-chimoney-app-users/) as [they can send and receive money via email, their application, and text messaging](https://chimoney.io/payouts/). Now you know the benefits of global payouts, let’s see how one global payout platform can empower nonprofit and communities.

## How Chimoney Empowers Communities and Non-profits

> Before you go to your computer or mobile device and do a long search of global payout platforms, consider checking out Chimoney. In addition to having their own platform where users can facilitate their transactions, they also partner with other platforms to help non-profits reach more clients. For example, [OpenGiving](https://donations.chimoney.io/), a platform helps non-profits and communities around the world can receive donations and get paid easily in various methods applicable to the donor through Chimoney’s payout feature.

Reviewer: TryOpenGiving is built by Chimoney, so the sentence "they also partner with other platforms to help non-profits reach more clients" may not be entirely accurate. Also, since non-profits primarily receive funding from donors, it would be more appropriate to use "donors" instead of "clients."

Please rewrite this `For example, [OpenGiving](https://donations.chimoney.io/), a platform helps non-profits and communities around the world can receive donations and get paid easily in various methods applicable to the donor through Chimoney’s payout feature.` to `For example, [TryOpenGiving](https://tryopengiving.com/), a platform built by Chimoney helps non-profits and communities around the world to receive donations and get paid easily in various methods applicable to the donor through Chimoney.`

## Now It's Your Turn

> Whether it’s ensuring timely financial support reaches communities in need or increasing transparency for donors, global payout solutions can be the key to empowering your non-profit or community initiative to serve people in transformative ways. Take the first step towards making a greater impact and discover how Chimoney can help you unlock new possibilities for your community.

Author: ```suggestion
Whether it’s ensuring timely financial support reaches communities in need or increasing transparency for donors, global payout solutions can be the key to empowering your non-profit or community initiative to serve people in transformative ways. Take the first step towards making a greater impact and discover how Chimoney can help you unlock new possibilities for your community.

## About the Author 

Christine Belzie is a technical writer and open source maintainer. Her articles have been featured on websites like FreeCodeCamp and Pieces For Developers. If you want to connect with her, check out her socials on [Linktree](https://linktr.ee/ChrissyCodes). 
```

## How Global Payouts Can Make Your Transactions Quick

> As cliche as it is to say, “Time is money”, it truly is important for users to get their money on time. Sadly, traditional banking institutions tend to have long delivery processes. For example, [Wise users receives their payment depending on the country and currency](https://wise.com/help/articles/2978029/how-long-does-it-take-to-receive-money-into-a-balance). This can put nonprofits at a disadvantage as it can cause the communities they serve to financially help them in a timely manner.  Unlike their traditional counterparts, global payout systems the waiting periods are always shorter and often times payment is instant. Nonprofits can benefit greatly from this as they don’t have to worry about the communities they serve not getting the funding they sent.  For instance, [AfricaHacks uses Chimoney's bulk payout feature](https://chimoney.io/blogs/5-types-of-people-who-should-use-chimoneys-bulk-gift-cards-feature/) to reward their hackathon winners.With a single click, all winners receive their payments instantly and can redeem them through multiple options, including bank transfers, mobile money, airtime, and gift cards.  Now before you go, there’s just one more benefit of using global payout systems for nonprofit funding.

Reviewer: The example with Wise is a bit misleading since Wise is not a traditional bank, please correct that

> As cliche as it is to say, “Time is money”, it truly is important for users to get their money on time. Sadly, traditional banking institutions tend to have long delivery processes. For example, [Wise users receives their payment depending on the country and currency](https://wise.com/help/articles/2978029/how-long-does-it-take-to-receive-money-into-a-balance). This can put nonprofits at a disadvantage as it can cause the communities they serve to financially help them in a timely manner.  Unlike their traditional counterparts, global payout systems the waiting periods are always shorter and often times payment is instant. Nonprofits can benefit greatly from this as they don’t have to worry about the communities they serve not getting the funding they sent.  For instance, [AfricaHacks uses Chimoney's bulk payout feature](https://chimoney.io/blogs/5-types-of-people-who-should-use-chimoneys-bulk-gift-cards-feature/) to reward their hackathon winners.With a single click, all winners receive their payments instantly and can redeem them through multiple options, including bank transfers, mobile money, airtime, and gift cards.  Now before you go, there’s just one more benefit of using global payout systems for nonprofit funding.

Reviewer: This sentence seems contradictory `This can put nonprofits at a disadvantage as it can cause the communities they serve to financially help them in a timely manner.`

> As cliche as it is to say, “Time is money”, it truly is important for users to get their money on time. Sadly, traditional banking institutions tend to have long delivery processes. For example, [Wise users receives their payment depending on the country and currency](https://wise.com/help/articles/2978029/how-long-does-it-take-to-receive-money-into-a-balance). This can put nonprofits at a disadvantage as it can cause the communities they serve to financially help them in a timely manner.  Unlike their traditional counterparts, global payout systems the waiting periods are always shorter and often times payment is instant. Nonprofits can benefit greatly from this as they don’t have to worry about the communities they serve not getting the funding they sent.  For instance, [AfricaHacks uses Chimoney's bulk payout feature](https://chimoney.io/blogs/5-types-of-people-who-should-use-chimoneys-bulk-gift-cards-feature/) to reward their hackathon winners.With a single click, all winners receive their payments instantly and can redeem them through multiple options, including bank transfers, mobile money, airtime, and gift cards.  Now before you go, there’s just one more benefit of using global payout systems for nonprofit funding.

Reviewer: I had left a comment in the previous review on this `Unlike their traditional counterparts, global payout systems`  but in case you missed it, glad to explain again.

Global payouts refer to the process of moving money across countries, and global payout systems are platforms that enable this, including traditional banks, fintech platforms, and payment processors. So the comparison you made is a bit misleading because traditional banks are also part of global payout systems. Could you please rephrase that part?

Author: Can you give me an idea on how to rephrase it @phyleria? I'm pretty lost.

Reviewer: Can we get on a call so I can explain this, please?

Author: Sure

## How Global Payouts Can Give You Multiple Ways To Send Money

> Global payouts provide the necessary infrastructure for non-profits to send financial support quickly and efficiently. In contrast to traditional banking platforms, global payout platforms users have the freedom to use any method to send their money to other people. This can be helpful to nonprofits as it enables them to decide which delivery method best suits their organization and the people they serve. Case in point, [the International Student Identity Card (ISIC)'s partnership with Chimoney makes it easier for students manage their fiances](https://chimoney.io/blogs/chimoney-partners-with-isic-to-expand-global-benefits-for-chimoney-app-users/) as [they can send and receive money via email, their application, and text messaging](https://chimoney.io/payouts/). Now you know the benefits of global payouts, let’s see how one global payout platform can empower nonprofit and communities.

Reviewer: Global Payouts is the transfer of funds, Global Payout systems are the platforms that allow this so Instead of `Global Payouts here, you should be having `Global Payout systems`

> Global payouts provide the necessary infrastructure for non-profits to send financial support quickly and efficiently. In contrast to traditional banking platforms, global payout platforms users have the freedom to use any method to send their money to other people. This can be helpful to nonprofits as it enables them to decide which delivery method best suits their organization and the people they serve. Case in point, [the International Student Identity Card (ISIC)'s partnership with Chimoney makes it easier for students manage their fiances](https://chimoney.io/blogs/chimoney-partners-with-isic-to-expand-global-benefits-for-chimoney-app-users/) as [they can send and receive money via email, their application, and text messaging](https://chimoney.io/payouts/). Now you know the benefits of global payouts, let’s see how one global payout platform can empower nonprofit and communities.

Reviewer: Global Payouts is the transfer of funds, Global Payout systems are the platforms that allow this so Instead of `Global Payouts` here, you should be having `Global Payout systems`

> Global payouts provide the necessary infrastructure for non-profits to send financial support quickly and efficiently. In contrast to traditional banking platforms, global payout platforms users have the freedom to use any method to send their money to other people. This can be helpful to nonprofits as it enables them to decide which delivery method best suits their organization and the people they serve. Case in point, [the International Student Identity Card (ISIC)'s partnership with Chimoney makes it easier for students manage their fiances](https://chimoney.io/blogs/chimoney-partners-with-isic-to-expand-global-benefits-for-chimoney-app-users/) as [they can send and receive money via email, their application, and text messaging](https://chimoney.io/payouts/). Now you know the benefits of global payouts, let’s see how one global payout platform can empower nonprofit and communities.

Reviewer: Kindly fix the comparison here too to be accurate ✅

Author: Can you elaborate on the inaccuracy here @phyleria?
